DOCSP-48381 make specify docs page (#1037)
mongodb/docs-node: source/crud/query/specify-documents-to-return.txt

In this guide, you can learn how to specify which documents to return from a read
operation by using the following methods:

- ``sort()``: Specifies the sort order for the returned documents.
- ``limit()``: Specifies the maximum number of documents to return from a query.
- ``skip()``: Specifies the number of documents to skip before returning query results.

> Sample Data for Examples

Reviewer: I'm not sure the best place to mention this or honestly if it is even worth mentioning - but if you use the chaining API you must specify all options before starting to iterate the cursor.

```typescript
const cursor = find();
await cursor.next();
cursor.limit(5); // does not work
```

Should we mention this limitation of the builder API somewhere?

Author: I think this is good information for users to have, thanks for informing me! I added a note about it in the overview section, let me know if the wording is technically correct! Do you know where the API documentation about this would be/if there is any? I was looking in https://mongodb.github.io/node-mongodb-native/6.15/ but couldn't find anything specifically about the chaining API.

   { "_id": 2, "title": "Les Misérables", "author": "Hugo", "length": 1462 }

.. _node-fundamentals-limit:

Limit
-----

Use the ``limit()`` method to cap the number of documents that can be returned from a read
operation. This method specifies the maximum number of documents that the operation can
return, but the operation can return a smaller number of documents if there are not enough
documents present to reach the limit. If ``limit()`` is used with the :ref:`skip()
<node-fundamentals-skip>` method, the skip applies first and the limit only applies to the
documents left over after the skip.

This example performs the following actions:

- Uses an empty query filter to match all documents in the collection
- Calls the ``sort()`` method to apply a descending sort on the ``length`` field to the results
- Calls the ``limit()`` method to return only the first ``3`` results

.. code-block:: javascript
   :emphasize-lines: 5

   // define an empty query document
   const query = {};
   // sort in descending (-1) order by length
   const sort = { length: -1 };
   const limit = 3;
   const cursor = myColl.find(query).sort(sort).limit(limit);
   for await (const doc of cursor) {

>        console.dir;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       console.dir(doc);
```

arbitrary documents.

If the value of ``skip()`` exceeds the number of matched documents for
a query, then that query returns no documents.

This example queries the collection for the books with the second and third
highest lengths by performing the following actions:

- Uses an empty query filter to match all documents in the collection
- Calls the ``sort()`` method to apply a descending sort to the ``length`` field, which returns longer books before shorter books
- Calls the ``skip()`` method to omit the first matching document from the result

.. code-block:: javascript

   // define an empty query document
   const query = {};
   const sort = { length: -1 };
   const skip = 1;
   const cursor = myColl.find(query).sort(sort).skip(1);
   for await (const doc of cursor) {
     console.dir(doc);
   }

Since the query skips the first matching document, the preceding code snippet prints
the second and third highest length documents:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 4, "name": "Infinite Jest", "author": "Wallace", "length": 1104 },
   { "_id": 6, "name": "A Dance With Dragons", "author": "Martin", "length": 1104 }

> 

Reviewer: I think we'd expect 5 documents in this example, not 2.  We're only skipping 1 document from the result cursor.

   const myDB = client.db("myDB");
   const myColl = myDB.collection("books");

   await myColl.insertMany([
     { "_id": 1, "name": "The Brothers Karamazov", "author": "Dostoyevsky", "length": 824 },
     { "_id": 2, "name": "Les Misérables", "author": "Hugo", "length": 1462 },
     { "_id": 3, "name": "Atlas Shrugged", "author": "Rand", "length": 1088 },
     { "_id": 4, "name": "Infinite Jest", "author": "Wallace", "length": 1104 },
     { "_id": 5, "name": "Cryptonomicon", "author": "Stephenson", "length": 918 },
     { "_id": 6, "name": "A Dance With Dragons", "author": "Martin", "length": 1104 },
   ]);

.. include:: /includes/access-cursor-note.rst

.. _node-fundamentals-limit:

Limit
-----

Use the ``limit()`` method to cap the number of documents that can be returned from a read
operation. This method specifies the maximum number of documents that the operation can
return, but the operation can return a smaller number of documents if there are not enough
documents present to reach the limit. If ``limit()`` is used with the :ref:`skip()
<node-fundamentals-skip>` method, the skip applies first and the limit only applies to the
documents left over after the skip.

> The following example queries the collection to return the top three
> longest books. 
> 
> - The query matches all documents because the query filter is empty.
> - The descending ``sort()`` method on the ``length`` field returns longer books before shorter books.
> - The ``limit()`` method specifies returning only the first ``3`` results.

Reviewer 2: S:
```suggestion
This example performs the following actions:

- Uses an empty query filter to match all documents in the collection
- Calls the ``sort()`` method to apply a descending sort on the ``length`` field to the results
- Calls the ``limit()`` method to return only the first ``3`` results
```

.. code-block:: javascript

>    :emphasize-lines: 4

Reviewer 2: S: emphasize limit instead of sort
```suggestion
   :emphasize-lines: 5
```

length:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 2, "title": "Les Misérables", "author": "Hugo", "length": 1462 }
   { "_id": 6, "title": "A Dance With Dragons", "author": "Martin", "length": 1104 }
   { "_id": 4, "title": "Infinite Jest", "author": "Wallace", "length": 1104 }

.. note::

   The order in which you call ``limit()`` and ``sort()`` does not matter because the
   driver reorders the calls to apply the sort first. The following two calls are
   equivalent:

   .. code-block:: javascript

      myColl.find(query).sort({ length: -1 }).limit(3);
      myColl.find(query).limit(3).sort({ length: -1 });

You can also apply ``sort()`` and ``limit()`` by specifying them in an
``options`` object in your call to the ``find()`` method. The following two
calls are equivalent:

.. code-block:: javascript

   myColl.find(query).sort({ length: -1 }).limit(3);
   myColl.find(query, { sort: { length: -1 }, limit: 3 });

For more information on the ``options`` settings for the ``find()``
method, see the
`API documentation on find() <{+api+}/classes/Collection.html#find>`__.

.. _node-fundamentals-sort:

Sort

> ----

Reviewer 2: Okay I actually think the Sort section should come first (before both skip and limit) since it's used in both of them, should've clarified that last time oops

operation returns books with longer lengths before books with shorter
lengths:

.. code-block:: javascript
   :emphasize-lines: 4

   // define an empty query document
   const query = {};
   // sort in descending (-1) order by length
   const sort = { length: -1 };
   const cursor = myColl.find(query).sort(sort);
   for await (const doc of cursor) {
     console.dir(doc);
   }

In this case, the number ``-1`` tells the read operation to sort the
books in descending order by length. ``find()`` returns the following
documents when this sort is used with an empty query:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 2, "title": "Les Misérables", "author": "Hugo", "length": 1462 }
   { "_id": 4, "title": "Infinite Jest", "author": "Wallace", "length": 1104 }
   { "_id": 6, "title": "A Dance with Dragons", "author": "Martin", "length": 1104 }
   { "_id": 3, "title": "Atlas Shrugged", "author": "Rand", "length": 1088 }
   { "_id": 5, "title": "Cryptonomicon", "author": "Stephenson", "length": 918 }
   { "_id": 1, "title": "The Brothers Karamazov", "author": "Dostoyevsky", "length": 824 }

Sometimes, the order of two or more documents is ambiguous using a specified sort. In the

> above case,the documents that have ``title`` values of ``"A Dance with Dragons"`` and

Reviewer 2: S: "preceding" + missing space
```suggestion
preceding example, the documents that have ``title`` values of ``"A Dance with Dragons"`` and
```

   const query = {};
   // sort in ascending (1) order by length
   const sort = { length: 1, author: 1 };
   const cursor = myColl.find(query).sort(sort);
   for await (const doc of cursor) {
     console.dir(doc);
   }

With the addition of the ``author`` field to the sort document, the read operation sorts
matching documents first by ``length`` then, if there is a tie, by ``author``. Matched
document fields are compared in the same order as fields are specified in the sort
document. ``find()`` returns the following ordering of documents when this sort is used on
the documents matching the query:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 1, "title": "The Brothers Karamazov", "author": "Dostoyevsky", "length": 824 }
   { "_id": 5, "title": "Cryptonomicon", "author": "Stephenson", "length": 918 }
   { "_id": 3, "title": "Atlas Shrugged", "author": "Rand", "length": 1088 }
   { "_id": 6, "title": "A Dance with Dragons", "author": "Martin", "length": 1104 }
   { "_id": 4, "title": "Infinite Jest", "author": "Wallace", "length": 1104 }
   { "_id": 2, "title": "Les Misérables", "author": "Hugo", "length": 1462 }

.. _node-fundamentals-skip:

Skip
----

> Use the ``skip()`` method to omit documents from the beginning of the list of
> returned documents for a read operation. You can combine ``skip()`` with

Reviewer 2: S:
```suggestion
Use the ``skip()`` method to omit documents from the beginning of the read operation results. You can combine ``skip()`` with
```

:ref:`sort() <node-fundamentals-sort>` to omit the top
(for descending order) or bottom (for ascending order) results for a
given query. Since the :manual:`order of documents returned
</reference/method/cursor.sort/#result-ordering>` is not guaranteed in
the absence of a sort, using ``skip()`` without using ``sort()`` omits
arbitrary documents.

If the value of ``skip()`` exceeds the number of matched documents for
a query, then that query returns no documents.

> The following example queries the collection for the books with the second and third
> highest lengths. 
> 
> - The query matches all documents because the query filter is empty.
> - The descending ``sort()`` method on the ``length`` field returns longer books before shorter books.
> - The ``skip()`` method specifies that the first matching document is omitted from the result.

Reviewer 2: S:
```suggestion
This example queries the collection for the books with the second and third
highest lengths by performing the following actions:

- Uses an empty query filter to match all documents in the collection
- Calls the ``sort()`` method to apply a descending sort to the ``length`` field, which returns longer books before shorter books
- Calls the ``skip()`` method to omit the first matching document from the result
```

.. code-block:: javascript

   // define an empty query document
   const query = {};
   const sort = { length: -1 };
   const skip = 1;
   const cursor = myColl.find(query).sort(sort).skip(1);
   for await (const doc of cursor) {
     console.dir(doc);
   }

Since the query skips the first matching document, the preceding code snippet prints
the second and third highest length documents:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 4, "name": "Infinite Jest", "author": "Wallace", "length": 1104 },
   { "_id": 6, "name": "A Dance With Dragons", "author": "Martin", "length": 1104 }

You can also apply ``skip()`` and ``sort()`` by specifying them in an
``options`` object in your call to the ``find()`` method. The following two
calls are equivalent:

.. code-block:: javascript

   myColl.find(query).sort({ length: -1 }).skip(1);
   myColl.find(query, { sort: { length: -1 }, skip: 1});

For more information on the ``options`` settings for the ``find()``
method, see the
`API documentation on find() <{+api+}/classes/Collection.html#find>`__.

Combine Limit, Sort, and Skip
-----------------------------

> You can combine the ``limit()``, ``sort()``, and ``skip()`` options in a single

Reviewer 2: S: since you're talking about the options here, not the methods, you can remove the ()
```suggestion
You can combine the ``limit``, ``sort``, and ``skip`` options in a single
```

operation. This allows you to set a maximum number of sorted documents to
return, skipping a specified number of documents before returning.

The following example returns documents with the ``length`` value of
``"1104"``. The results are sorted in alphabetical order, skipping the first

> document and specifies returning only the first result:

Reviewer 2: S:
```suggestion
document and including only the first result:
```

.. code-block:: javascript

>    :emphasize-lines: 5

Reviewer 2: S: I don't think you need to emphasize any lines here

      skip : 1,
   }

   const cursor = myColl.find(query, options);
   for await (const doc of cursor) {
     console.dir(doc);
   }

Since we specified that query skip the first document, the code snippet above prints
the second and third highest length documents:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 4, "name": "Infinite Jest", "author": "Wallace", "length": 1104 },
   { "_id": 6, "name": "A Dance With Dragons", "author": "Martin", "length": 1104 }

The ``sort`` and ``skip`` options can also be specified as methods chained to
the ``find`` method. The following two commands are equivalent:

.. code-block:: javascript

   myColl.find(query, { sort: { rating: -1}, skip: 1});
   myColl.find(query).sort({rating: -1}).skip(1);

Sort
----

Use ``sort`` to change the order in which read operations return
documents. ``Sort`` tells MongoDB to order returned documents by the
values of one or more fields in a certain direction. To sort returned
documents by a field in ascending (lowest first) order, use a value of
``1``. To sort in descending (greatest first) order instead, use ``-1``.
If you do not specify a sort, MongoDB does not guarantee the order of
query results.

> In the following example, we pass the sort document to a read operation to ensure that the
> operation returns books with longer lengths before books with shorter
> lengths:

Reviewer 2: S:
```suggestion
The following example passes the sort document to a read operation to ensure that the
operation returns books with longer lengths before books with shorter
lengths:
```

.. code-block:: javascript
   :emphasize-lines: 4

   // define an empty query document
   const query = {};
   // sort in descending (-1) order by length
   const sort = { length: -1 };
   const cursor = myColl.find(query).sort(sort);
   for await (const doc of cursor) {
     console.dir(doc);
   }

In this case, the number ``-1`` tells the read operation to sort the
books in descending order by length. ``find()`` returns the following
documents when this sort is used with an empty query:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 2, "title": "Les Misérables", "author": "Hugo", "length": 1462 }
   { "_id": 4, "title": "Infinite Jest", "author": "Wallace", "length": 1104 }
   { "_id": 6, "title": "A Dance with Dragons", "author": "Martin", "length": 1104 }
   { "_id": 3, "title": "Atlas Shrugged", "author": "Rand", "length": 1088 }
   { "_id": 5, "title": "Cryptonomicon", "author": "Stephenson", "length": 918 }
   { "_id": 1, "title": "The Brothers Karamazov", "author": "Dostoyevsky", "length": 824 }

Sometimes, the order of two or more documents is ambiguous using a

> specified sort. In the above case, both "A Dance with Dragons" and
> "Infinite Jest" have ``1104`` pages, so the order in which they are

Reviewer 2: S:
```suggestion
specified sort. In the above case, the documents that have ``title`` values of ``"A Dance with Dragons"`` and
``"Infinite Jest"`` both have a ``length`` of ``1104``, so the order in which they are
```

returned is not guaranteed. To resolve ties in your sorted results in a
repeatable way, add more fields to the sort document:

.. code-block:: javascript
   :emphasize-lines: 4

   // define an empty query document
   const query = {};
   // sort in ascending (1) order by length
   const sort = { length: 1, author: 1 };
   const cursor = myColl.find(query).sort(sort);
   for await (const doc of cursor) {
     console.dir(doc);
   }

With the addition of the ``author`` field to the sort document, the read operation sorts
matching documents first by ``length`` then, if there is a tie, by ``author``. Matched
document fields are compared in the same order as fields are specified in the sort

> document. ``find()`` returns the following ordering of documents when this sort is used on
> the documents matching the query, sorting ``"Martin"`` before ``"Wallace"`` for the two books with
> the same length:

Reviewer 2: S: I'd remove some extra detail here
```suggestion
document. ``find()`` returns the following ordering of documents when this sort is used on
the query:
```

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 1, "title": "The Brothers Karamazov", "author": "Dostoyevsky", "length": 824 }
   { "_id": 5, "title": "Cryptonomicon", "author": "Stephenson", "length": 918 }
   { "_id": 3, "title": "Atlas Shrugged", "author": "Rand", "length": 1088 }
   { "_id": 6, "title": "A Dance with Dragons", "author": "Martin", "length": 1104 }
   { "_id": 4, "title": "Infinite Jest", "author": "Wallace", "length": 1104 }
   { "_id": 2, "title": "Les Misérables", "author": "Hugo", "length": 1462 }

Combine Limit, Sort, and Skip
-----------------------------

> You can combine ``limit``, ``sort``, and ``skip`` in a single

Reviewer 2: S:
```suggestion
You can combine the ``limit``, ``sort``, and ``skip`` options in a single
```

operation. This allows you to set a maximum number of sorted documents to
return, skipping a specified number of documents before returning.

The following example returns documents with the ``length`` value of
``"1104"``. The results are sorted in alphabetical order, skipping the first

> document:

Reviewer 2: I: this example is missing limit

.. code-block:: javascript
   :emphasize-lines: 5

   // define a query to look for length value of 1104
   const query = {length: "1104"};
   const options = {
      // sort in alphabetical (1) order by title
      sort : { title: 1 },
      // omit the first document
      skip : 1,
   }

>    const cursor = myColl.find(query).sort(sort);

Reviewer 2: I: this method call doesn't apply the options
```suggestion
   const cursor = myColl.find(query, options);
```

   for await (const doc of cursor) {
     console.dir(doc);
   }

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   { "_id": 4, "title": "Infinite Jest", "author": "Wallace", "length": 1104 }

.. note::

   The order in which you call these methods doesn't change the documents
   that are returned. The driver automatically reorders the calls to perform the
   sort and skip operations first, and the limit operation afterward.

> You can also limit, sort, and skip results by specifying them as

Reviewer 2: I: the previous example does specify these as parameters (an options parameter) to the find() method. Either you can show how to specify each as methods chained to find(), or omit this part

parameters in the ``find`` method. The following example specifies the
same query as the preceding example:

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: 
      :language: javascript

      myColl.find(query, { sort: { title: 1}, skip: 1});

   .. output::
      :language: json
      :visible: false
      
      { "_id": 4, "title": "Infinite Jest", "author": "Wallace", "length": 1104 }

Additional Information
----------------------

For more information about specifying a query, see :ref:`node-query`.

For more information about retrieving documents, see :ref:`node-fundamentals-retrieve-data`.

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To learn more about any of the methods or types discussed in this

Reviewer 2: S: since these are just methods
```suggestion
To learn more about any of the methods discussed in this
```

> guide, see the following API Documentation:

Reviewer 2: S:
```suggestion
guide, see the following API documentation:
```
